Add server-side rendering documentation (#268)
FormidableLabs/urql: docs/basics.md

[Read more about customising `urql` in the "Extending & Experimenting" section.](extending-and-experimenting.md)

## Server-side rendering

Server-side rendering is a common method to reduce the time it takes for
a user to see a React page's content. Typically this is implemented using
the [`react-dom/server` package](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom-server.html).

`urql` can be set up to fetch data on the server and rehydrate this data
on the client, so that the user's browser does not need to refetch it and

> can seemlessly rehydrate your React page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can seamlessly rehydrate your React page.
```

> There's two parts in `urql` that enable server-side rendering to work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two parts in `urql` that enable server-side rendering:
```

- The `Client` has a `suspense` option, which enables support for React's
  experimental Suspense API for data fetching, which allows us to prefetch
  data before calling `renderToString` or `renderToNodeStream`.

> - The `ssrExchange` which is a small operation cache that works together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `ssrExchange`, which is a small operation cache that works together
```

  with Suspense to save data on the server and rehydrate it on the client.

Since Suspense is still an experimental API there's no official way to use
it to prefetch data on the server-side. For this reason we have a companion

> library, [`react-ssr-prepass`](it currently doesn't hav), which can be used to run a "prepass"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
library, [`react-ssr-prepass`](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-ssr-prepass), which can be used to run a "prepass"
```

that fetches all suspended data it finds in a React element tree.

### Setting up the `Client`

When you set up the `Client` for server-side rendering, on the server
you will need to set `suspense` to `true` and on the client to `false`,

```js
import { Client } from 'urql';

const client = new Client({
  suspense: !process.browser,
  // ...
});
```

> You can often achieve this with `process.browser` in most settings if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can often achieve this with `process.browser` in most environments if
```

you're using a single universal file to create a client on the server
and on the client.

Next up, the `ssrExchange` needs to be set up. It's a factory, since
it has some methods for extracting and rehydrating data.

```js
import {
  Client,
  dedupExchange,
  cacheExchange,
  fetchExchange,
  ssrExchange,
} from 'urql';

const ssrCache = ssrExchange();

const client = new Client({
  exchanges: [
    dedupExchange,
    cacheExchange,

>     ssrCache, // Added here after calling ssrExchange

Reviewer: Something funky with the indentation of this line

    fetchExchange,
  ],
  // ...
  suspense: !process.browser,
});
```

> The exchange from `ssrExchange()` should be added after the default

Reviewer: Replace this paragraph with:

The exchange from `ssrExchange()` should be added after `cacheExchange` (or any custom cache exchange you've defined), and before any asynchronous exchanges like `fetchExchange`.

or your custom `cacheExchange` and before any asynchronous exchanges
like the `fetchExchange`.

### Prefetching on the server

In your request handler on the server-side, you'll have to add some

> code handling suspense. Typically this is done using a "prepass" that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code for handling suspense. Typically this is done using a "prepass" that
```

walks your element tree and awaits suspended promises.

> So for suspense to now be executed on the server you may install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to execute suspense on the server, you may install
```

> `react-ssr-prepass` (which has a peer dependency on `react-is`)

Reviewer: It would be good to have short paragraph comparing and contrasting this `react-ssr-prepass` to `getDataFromTree`, so people understand its role

```sh
yarn add react-ssr-prepass react-is
# or
npm install --save react-ssr-prepass react-is
```

Then you can add it to your server-side rendering code _before_
calling `renderToString` or `renderToNodeStream`. This will fetch
all suspended promises, including `urql`'s queries. And after
you can use the `ssrExchange()`'s `extractData` method to
get `urql`'s data:

```js
import ssrPrepass from 'react-ssr-prepass';

const handler = (req, res) => {
  // ...
  // We assume you've already set up the urql Client and have
  // the `ssrCache = ssrExchange()` variable from somewhere

  await ssrPrepass(<App />);

  // Extract the data from urql's SSR cache
  const urqlData = ssrCache.extractData();

  // Then you can run your rendering code for which the ssrCache
  // should remain unchanged
  const reactHtml = renderToString(<App />);

  // Make sure to send urql's data down to the client somehow
  const urqlHtml = `<script>window.URQL_DATA = ${JSON.stringify(urqlData)};</script>`;

  // And send everything down to the client
  // ...
};
```

### Rehydrating on the client

> Assuming you now have server-side rendered and have sent down `urql`'s

Reviewer: Replace this paragraph with:

Now you have server-side rendered the page and sent down data collected during the render pass. As a next step, you should rehydrate the data on the client side.

Assuming you now have server-side rendered and have sent down `urql`'s
data from that render pass to the client, you should make sure that you
rehydrate that data.

data from that render pass to the client, you should make sure that you
rehydrate that data.

You can either do so when creating `ssrExchange`, by passing it `initialState`
as a parameter or calling `restoreData` on it:

```js
import { ssrExchange } from 'urql';

const ssrCache = ssrExchange({
  initialState: window.URQL_DATA,
});

// or:

ssrCache.restoreData(window.URQL_DATA);

// Assuming this follows the client setup and is added to the `exchanges` list
// ...
```

> Your setup may vary depending on whether you set up the same file to be

Reviewer: Replace paragraph with:

Your setup may vary depending on whether your client initialization code is universal (single file that executes on client and server, such as Next.js `getInitialProps`), or two separate files for client and server.

[Read more about customising `urql` in the "Extending & Experimenting" section.](extending-and-experimenting.md)

## Server-side rendering

Server-side rendering is a common method to reduce the time it takes for
a user to see a React page's content. Typically this is implemented using
the [`react-dom/server` package](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom-server.html).

`urql` can be set up to fetch data on the server and rehydrate this data
on the client, so that the user's browser does not need to refetch it and
can seamlessly rehydrate your React page.

There are two parts in `urql` that enable server-side rendering:

- The `Client` has a `suspense` option, which enables support for React's
  experimental Suspense API for data fetching, which allows us to prefetch

>   data before calling `renderToString` or `renderToNodeStream`.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to some resources when talking about the SSR process? I can imagine a number of people looking to use URQL for SSR might never have used SSR before and terms such as `renderToString` and `renderToNodeStream` may be new to them.

Author: It is linked right at the top of this section:

> Typically this is implemented using
the [`react-dom/server` package](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom-server.html).

The problem is I literally couldn't find a good source to link to. As it turns out `reactjs.org` doesn't have ~much~ any content on server-side rendering 😱
